feat: Document AppStore Connect integration (#3942)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/apple/common/dsym.mdx

tags: []
---

Sentry requires a dSYM upload to symbolicate your crash logs. The symbolication process unscrambles Apple’s crash logs to reveal the function, file names, and line numbers of the crash. Upload the dSYM file using either [sentry-cli](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cli), the [Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/) action, or set up the Sentry [App Store Connect](#bitcode-appstore) integration for Bitcode builds.

## With Bitcode {#dsym-with-bitcode}

If [Bitcode](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/AppDistributionGuide/AppThinning/AppThinning.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40012582-CH35-SW2) **is enabled** in your project, dSYM files will only be available **after** builds have finished processing in App Store Connect. We recommend using the latest Xcode version for submitting your build.

Sentry can fetch dSYM files automatically as they become available from App Store Connect when setting up the [App Store Connect](#bitcode-appstore) integration.

Alternatively, the dSYM files can be downloaded either with [Fastlane](#bitcode-fastlane) or manually, and uploaded with [sentry-cli](#bitcode-sentrycli).

> ### Using App Store Connect {#bitcode-appstore}

Reviewer: Is this feature going to be available on the free tier? If it's a business feature, do we state that somehow here?

Author: @jan-auer is clearing that up and should get back on this soon.

> When using the App Store Connect integration, Sentry will automatically discover and fetch dSYM files for Bitcode builds as they become available on App Store Connect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use the App Store Connect integration, Sentry will automatically discover and fetch dSYM files for Bitcode builds as they become available on App Store Connect.
```

> When you use the App Store Connect integration, Sentry will automatically discover and fetch dSYM files for Bitcode builds as they become available on App Store Connect.

Reviewer 3: I'd call out that these are by default still contain obfuscated symbol names and that you need to upload the BCSymbolMap files to sentry as part of your build process to unscramble them.

> To configure the integration, go to **Project Settings > Debug Files** and add App Store Connect as a new **Custom Repository**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the integration, go to **[Project] > Settings > Debug Files** and add App Store Connect as a new "Custom Repository".
```

Setting up App Store Connect currently requires two separate credentials.

**App Store Connect API Key**:

> Follow the documentation on [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) and provide the _Issuer_, _Key ID_ and _Private Key_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the documentation on [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) and provide the _Issuer_, _Key ID_, and _Private Key_.
```

> Follow the documentation on [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) and provide the _Issuer_, _Key ID_, and _Private Key_.

Reviewer 3: Also mention that the key needs the "Developer" role in order to be able to detect new builds

**iTunes Credentials**:

> An iTunes user and password are required in addition to the normal App Store Connect API Key, due to limitations of the App Store Connect API. The App Store Connect API Key alone will only allow detection of new builds, but an iTunes user is required to actually fetch the associated dSYM files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An iTunes user and password are required, in addition to the normal App Store Connect API Key, due to limitations of the App Store Connect API. The App Store Connect API Key alone will only allow detection of new builds; an iTunes user is required to actually fetch the associated dSYM files.
```

> [Create a new Apple ID](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204316) specifically for this integration and provide its credentials. The user needs to have the _"Developer"_ role in the appropriate App Store Organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Create a new Apple ID](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204316) specifically for this integration and provide its credentials. The user needs to have the _Developer_ role in the appropriate App Store Organization.
```

<Alert level="warning">

> We highly recommend to create a dedicated iTunes user account for the purpose of this integration, and to **not** use a regular user account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We highly recommend that you create a dedicated iTunes user account for the purpose of this integration, and that you **not** use a regular user account.
```

> We highly recommend that you create a dedicated iTunes user account for the purpose of this integration, and that you **not** use a regular user account.

Reviewer 3: I'd even add "Using the sentry account in the App Store Connect web interface or elsewhere at the same time Sentry uses them will lead to interruptions in sentry's ability to download dSYMs."  And well, sentry uses the credentials as soon as they are configured so maybe the wording can be tweaked some more even

</Alert>

> These credentials will need to be verified by a two-factor authentication token that can optionally be requested via SMS.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if you mean that it's optional whether the 2FA happens by SMS OR that the 2FA *must* have the SMS option. If you mean the second, then just remove the word "optionally". If you mean the first, then remove everything after "token."

```suggestion
These credentials will need to be verified by a two-factor authentication token that can optionally be requested via SMS.
```

Author: By default it will automatically pop-up the 2FA token on any apple device that you have linked to the account, but there is a "send sms" button to send the token via SMS instead. How should I phrase that?

Reviewer 2: Got it. 
```suggestion
These credentials will need to be verified by a two-factor authentication token that you can choose to have sent by SMS.
```

> **Re-authentication**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Re-authentication**
```

> The iTunes credentials and two-factor authentication are only short-lived and need to be refreshed on a regular basis. Sentry will prompt users to re-authenticate once the iTunes credentials expire.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The iTunes credentials and two-factor authentication are short-lived and need to be refreshed on a regular basis. Sentry will prompt users to re-authenticate once the iTunes credentials expire.
```

Sentry can fetch dSYM files automatically as they become available from App Store Connect when setting up the [App Store Connect](#bitcode-appstore) integration.

Alternatively, the dSYM files can be downloaded either with [Fastlane](#bitcode-fastlane) or manually, and uploaded with [sentry-cli](#bitcode-sentrycli).

### Using App Store Connect {#bitcode-appstore}

When you use the App Store Connect integration, Sentry will automatically discover and fetch dSYM files for Bitcode builds as they become available on App Store Connect. These dSYM files however contain obfuscated symbol names and paths. An additional BCSymbolMap file needs to be uploaded to provide properly symbolicated crash reports. These BCSymbolMap files can be uploaded using either [sentry-cli](#symbolmap-sentrycli) or [Fastlane](#symbolmap-fastlane).

> To configure the integration, go to **[Project] > Settings > Debug Files** and add App Store Connect as a new "Custom Repository". Note that setting up the integration will currently result in two separate audit entries being created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure the integration, go to **[Project] > Settings > Debug Files** and add App Store Connect as a new "Custom Repository". Note that setting up the integration will currently result in two identical audit entries being created.
```
?

Free tiers will be able to set up one App Store Connect source per project. Take a look at our [plans](https://sentry.io/pricing/) or contact [sales@sentry.io](mailto:sales@sentry.io) if more than one App Store Connect source is required.

Setting up App Store Connect currently requires two separate credentials.

**App Store Connect API Key**:

Follow the documentation on [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) and provide the _Issuer_, _Key ID_, and _Private Key_. The API Key needs to have the _Developer_ role in order to fetch build details.

**iTunes Credentials**:

> An iTunes user and password are required, in addition to the normal App Store Connect API Key, due to limitations of the App Store Connect API. The App Store Connect API Key alone will only allow detection of new builds; an iTunes user is required to actually fetch the associated dSYM files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An iTunes user and password are required, in addition to the normal App Store Connect API Key, due to limitations of the App Store Connect API. The App Store Connect API Key alone will only allow detection of new builds; an iTunes user is required to fetch the associated dSYM files.
```
?

[Create a new Apple ID](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204316) specifically for this integration and provide its credentials. The user needs to have the _Developer_ role in the appropriate App Store Organization.

<Alert level="warning">

We highly recommend that you create a dedicated iTunes user account for the purpose of this integration, and that you **not** use a regular user account.

Using the configured iTunes account on a different device will disrupt Sentrys ability to use it in order to download dSYM files.

</Alert>

These credentials will need to be verified by a two-factor authentication token that you can choose to have sent by SMS.

**Re-authentication**

The iTunes credentials and two-factor authentication are short-lived and need to be refreshed on a regular basis. Sentry will prompt users to re-authenticate once the iTunes credentials expire.

> #### Upload BCSymbolMaps using Fastlane {#symbolmap-fastlane}

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we can/should link to the sentry-cocoa example repo for this?

Author: hm, maybe the link would go stale at some point?

Reviewer 3: true, otoh right now it's very... "good luck, if you know what we're talking about than this makes sense but if you're new to this it probably doesn't". But this certainly isn't a blocker.  Lets get something out first.
